---
layout:	post
title:	"Seven"
date:	2015-09-08
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
star: false
category: blog
author: davidzhang
description:
published: false
---

  I like to take walks. I feel like I’m more immersed in the world. The lights are brighter, the sounds are lighter, and even the air smells better. I lose track of time and just step into my own universe.

An hour ago, I was walking to the rhythm of some sweet tunes. I looked up, and in the cloudless sky, I began to hear the melody of the stars. They were dancing with me. I couldn’t stop taking deep breaths of the sweet pine aroma that sifted through the crisp clean air. My senses were all tingling with the highs of nature. I was in a hella’ good mood.

And then a few minutes ago, I did some things that brought me back down to the ground. Although I’ve been trying my best not to, I have a terrible habit of hanging on the past, and whenever I get triggered into that state of mind, I feel anything but good.

The worries, the fears, the negativity begins to clamp in and around your mind, giving you no room to breathe or think. The inspiration that you so proactively sought to foster diffuse right out of what’s left to be a big black mass of shit.

But that’s okay. Sometimes it’s important to feel this way, at least that’s what I tell myself. I like to comfort myself by saying that *this is all a part of the process*, but I always wonder if it really is. If I could let out a big fat sigh into this sheet of online paper, I’d insert it right here.

*Sigh*

Okay, even I can laugh at the cheeky ’04 MSN expression lingo’.

But as I start to write these sentences, it feels like my fingers are starting to pick back up again. As if the more I write, the more that comes to me. A lot of my friends tell me that when they write, they wait for some kind of magical inspiration, which, is not necessarily a bad thing. A lot of people do it. I mean, isn’t that how it works? You get the idea first, then you put it on paper. But the more I write, the more I’m starting to believe otherwise. It feels like with each press and each tap, my inspiration gauge is rising higher and higher. Could it be that the converse — that writing gives inspiration is also true?

To be honest, I am not even sure about what I’m writing right now. All I know is that my fingertips are hungry for more. For those of you who have heard of Freud (okay all of you), you might know his popular concept of Free Association. Empty the mind, and let all of your thoughts flow through. It’s as if by beginning to write, I’ve also began to purify my mind of any irrelevant thoughts, and by doing that, something has been unplugged and the words are just flowing into my brain. Whatever I am thinking about, I am just writing it right now! Poop, sploop, snoop, New York, Japan, I am gorilla!

Maybe I shouldn’t get carried away, but the concept is still there. I’m beginning to realize that inspiration is not a pre-requisite of writing. Why wait for something to come to you when you have it all along? Write, and you can inspire yourself.

I’m going to do it. No matter how I feel, how busy I am, or how shit I think my writing will be, I’m going to write one post every day for seven days straight.

I hope I don’t write something like “I am gorilla” again.
