---
layout:	post
title:	"Resets"
date:	2015-08-21
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
star: false
category: blog
author: davidzhang
description:
published: false
---

  “Press ‘space’ to restart”

“Insert coin(s) to reset”

“Click to replay”

I’ve always been given some kind of opportunity to push the restart button and wipe my slate. Every year in grade school I would continuously shit the bed during the semester and have to haul ass in order to get past finals and year-end evaluations. And every following year, I would promise myself that I wouldn’t let it happen again.

“I’m in grade 7 now. I gotta’ get my shit together. It’s a fresh start.”

But nothing really changed. I continued my habits and fed the never ending feedback cycle. I would always comfort myself and say “Hey man no worries! You always have next year!”. *Next year.* There are only so many “next’s”. There comes a time where you run out of resets. There comes a time where resets don’t exist anymore.

I’ve realized that resets don’t exist.

On the first day of grade 7, I made a best friend. We hung out together, played video games together, and did things normal teenagers did. Time passed and I began to crave for a different flavour of life. I wanted to be cool, so I told him, Runescape is gay,” and drifted away. I began to make fun of him for wanting to play video games over hanging out with the “bros” and started doing things what I’d probably now consider as bullying. One time, the bullying went a bit over the line and we ended up fighting (IRL).

Although none of us broke any bones, we broke something that should have been much stronger than calcium deposits and osteoplasts.

Where was the reset button? To be honest, during that stage of my life, I didn’t even care about what had happened. It felt good to be cool… but only momentarily. Sooner or later I’d recognize the consequences of what I’d done, but could it have been undone?

Could I have apologized to him, given him a fist bump and thrown a few cool phrases like, “Yo shit bro my bad like yo”? Would that have made things better? Who knows? Maybe we could’ve been friends again, but make no mistake — this isn’t a reset. No matter what, our relationship had already fallen. If there was any chance of building it back up, it would be exactly just that. Building it back up. From the ground.

Well, isn’t that what a reset is? Wiping things clean and getting a new chance to repaint the canvas?

Not exactly.

Time in our universe as we know it is unidirectional. The time we get to borrow in lives is no exception. And as each second passes, the state of our lives changes along with it. If you drew an ugly picture and erased it, time has passed. And within that passing, things have occurred. You have learnt to not draw the same ugly picture, you used up energy to erase the picture, the paper crumpled, atoms shifted, etc. Although you might have gone back to an apparent blank page, neither you or the page is the same as it was a few minutes ago. You’ve created a new permutation, and the universe has rearranged.

Maybe I could’ve done some damage control for what happened with me and my friend, and maybe we could’ve tried to move forward and be friends again, but it wouldn’t have been resetting anything. By definition, resetting implies *moving backwards*; I was looking for a *renewal.*

When we come full circle, the energy that is created from traversing the circumference is given off as experience. It’s not a secret that everything we do is an exothermic reaction, haphazardly effervescing energy in the sinusoidal curvature of life. But that energy doesn’t just dissipate into oblivion, it stays with us as proof of the permanence of time. Entropy, the mileage of time, the crying, the pain — none of that can be reset.

Some of us get stuck in the illusion of resets. We get caught up in its seduction and end up frozen on our knees, begging for “one more chance”, but the reality is that there’s just no such thing. Whatever you’ve lost is lost. Whatever is done is done. In life, you don’t get to reset. You can spend as much time you want daydreaming about the past, but backwards is not an option. You either go nowhere, or you get to move forward.

Let’s go with the latter.
