---
layout:	post
title:	"Burn Out"
date:	2015-09-13
image:
headerImage: false
tag:
star: false
category: blog
author: davidzhang
description:
---

  Every year the Alberta Chess Association holds a “Battle of Alberta” tournament where the top 12 players of the North face off in a two-game match against the corresponding top 12 players of the South. Whichever team ends up with the higher cumulative score has their names engraved on a big trophy and gets a bag of bragging rights.

I’ve played in 3 of them in the past, and since I’m taking a year off of school, I was able to be in Alberta for this year’s.

To be honest, I haven’t played Chess seriously since forever, and I am hella’ rusty. My calculation speed and accuracy is a fraction of what it used to be. That’s to be expected, since if you don’t consciously exercise this part of your brain, it slowly begins to atrophy.

In classical or “standard” Chess, each player gets ninety minutes of total time, with a thirty second increment per move. This is to give players time to record their moves on a scoresheet and to encourage using a healthy dose of time to think. However, since I am still brushing off the dust, I need more time to achieve a decent standard of accuracy. In turn, it takes me a while to move and I eventually fell into time trouble during my games.

In both of my games, I ended up falling to 2–3 seconds left on my clock because of slow thinking, so I was essentially playing on the thirty second increment. When you are in a low time situation, not only do you have a lot of pressure to make quick moves, but you are also terribly tired of non-stop thinking from the last 4 hours. Sure, once you have made your move, you are free to leave your seat and walk around as a break, but your mind never really leaves the board. After grueling for almost 6 hours, I was on the brink of facedesking, but with seconds on my clock, I had fought my way from a dubious position into a draw.

I was happy with the game, but realized it had drained a lot of juice. I’d gotten 5 hours of sleep the previous day and was running with no food since the round started. We had just finished a 5.5 hour game, but the next one was scheduled to start in 30 minutes.

I needed charging; I needed FOOD.

Six years ago when I was playing in the World Youth Chess Championships in Turkey, one of the coaches told me to eat lots of protein before my matches for long-lasting energy. It probably gave me a 100 point elo boost considering I literally ate a plate of fries before every single game in that tournament until then. Ever since, I always stock up on protein before anything that’s brain intensive.

I ended up getting chicken legs from Safeway. It wasn’t… great… but I mean, okay, it’s Safeway.

So I ate, drank some water, took a deuce, and got ready for round 2.

The second game started out pretty slowly with a few pawn exchanges and a very bland opening. The position was pretty quiet, but I managed to gain some space and bring some complications. When the opportunity came, I was given the choice of continuing the game as a positional grind of attrition or to sacrifice a Knight for some exciting play.

Chess is interesting because there are so many types of playstyles and players. A few years ago, I would have never taken such crazy risks in any of my games because I was terribly afraid to lose. However, as I matured, my playstyle changed to be more hungry. It’s been a crazy ride on my Chess career, but that story is for another time.

As you can guess, I ended up choosing the latter and sparked up the position. The game started to get interesting, and tactics were flying everywhere.

I was having fun.

But the fun would not last.

With 20 minutes left on the clock, I felt a huge wave of exhaustion sweep over me. *Holy crap.* I was on the brink of falling asleep at the board. My thinking speed somehow got even slower, and I again ended up falling into time trouble, 2–3 seconds from running out of time every move.

This time, I wasn’t as lucky. After making mistake after mistake, my opponent simply out-calculated me and found good combinations to counter my last-minute muster-ups.

I lost.

Of course, I can’t just blame my tiredness for my result, but it was definitely a contributing factor. And although I had lots of fun today, the feeling of overworking and exhaustion isn’t a good one. Interestingly, the same concept applies to many things outside of a Chess game.

School, relationships, hobbies, passions — no matter what you do, if you work to the point of burning out, you’ve gone a bit too far.

While burning out is usually the culmination of a ridiculous amount of effort, it is also usually a ridiculous amount of inefficient effort. At least, that is true for me.

For the past week, I have made it a goal to read, write, code, and exercise everyday. While I have definitely kept some consistency, I write when I get into bed at midnight, sleep when it’s 1 or 2 in the morning, and wake up when the sun is already above my head. I haven’t been getting good quality sleep, or much at all for that matter. That turns to affect my productivity and efficiency for the next day, and cascades into an escalating cycle that leads to the inevitable — the **burn out**.

Yes. I am burnt out. Like a candle that has been squashed by a hippopotamus, my fire has turned into smoke. When I wake up, my joints are sore, my head is spinning, and my mind is nowhere to be found. It feels like a week had passed, and suddenly I’m 40 years older. I don’t even know how I’m writing this write now. I hope I don’t fall asleep at the keyboa-

Some people say that this period is temporary and that I need to persist in the same manner that I am now in order to truly improve myself. I agree to an extent, but I believe with smart planning and efficient execution, burn outs should never even occur.

It’s a common anecdote that in order to improve, you need to push your limits. But at the same time, you need to know them. Like working out, if you are trying to bench 225 but your body can only handle 180, you’re going to get injured. If you were doing a few sets around your range, your progress might not be as fast than if you were going to the absolute nuts, but you will be getting progress.

Slow and steady improvement is better than getting injured and ending up with nothing at all.

Of course, there is a balance between pacing and acceleration; each of us has different pivot points on the teeter-totter, we just have to find that for ourselves. I can attest to being a culprit of doing a lot of inefficient work, and now I realize that price that I have to pay. It’s time to start doing things a little bit smarter. Wake up earlier, write during the day, and get ready to sleep before it gets to late.

Shit, it’s 1 AM again.
